---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2021-02-23

Attending: Will, Seb, Dom, June, Jason, Jean-Marie, Josh, Petr, Wilma, Frances, Melissa, Andreas, Kevin, Chris, Erin, Emil

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
  - BF issue with idr0093 - Melissa has fix, being tested. Hopefully in next release
  - Next release also includes with idr0090 (malaria) and idr0099 (beetle)

- NGFF
  - Benchmark status (3D, AWS, snapshots)
    - 3D still generating data - 3TB imaris to zarr to OME-TIFF
    - 1024 cube, 500 time points
    - Merging branches so we don't need to use snapshots in prep for AWS
  - Community calls & the [roadmap](https://github.com/ome/ngff/projects/1)
    - Well attended this morning
    - Some interest in driving spec - collections, scales, polygons etc.
    - Separate HCS spec from core etc.
  - Zarr/N5 Java edition tomorrow evening (8 CET)
    - Include Java community members
    - Discuss v3 implementation in Java
  - Paper - JRS
    - Methods for Benchmark, need a couple of paragraphs
    - Updates to [draft text](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14u-wBHRupQItvA-2CSgYGWxxN1rM5L2f__cZRk-mYFQ/edit) - recently rewritten, feedback welcome

- Releases
  - insight 5.5.16 (out). dmg built by GHA to be looked at
  - iviewer 0.10.2 (out)
  - figure: one more PR to rebase then merge
  - going over conda packages
  - web: work-in-progress

- SA: N/A

- Glencoe
  - focus on ngff etc.
  - also masks - metadata in OME-Zarr, balance with domain-specific metadata
  - HCS - implicit grouping good, but non-python API can be tricky. Java: groups need creating manually
    - Josh: jzarr might be doing this wrong. Might be worth raising
    - labels working OK with current spec (nested under image)
    - close to telling users to write their data, masks etc into OME-Zarr
    - 

- Community
  - [forum: Prepping and including ROI masks](https://forum.image.sc/t/prepping-and-including-roi-masks/48750/9) - Will to check iviewer
  - [OME 2021 Meeting?](https://forum.image.sc/t/ome-community-meeting-2021/49112)
    - Jason - covid status not changing much
    - Do we want to have a single meeting? Remote etc more flexible
    - JM: pick a day, let users choose schedule?
    - Josh: less time over more days is less stressful
    - TBD: pre-recorded videos, # of days, continugous, big topics, exclude NGFF since it's bimonthly
    - Jason will reply to forum "We're discussing it"
    
   - Sanger and 4DN projects
    - challenge to manage communication channels

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
