---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2021-03-09

## Attending: 
Frances, Seb, Dom, Jean-Marie, Andreas, June, Wilma, Kevin, Will, Erin, David, Petr, Jason, Chris

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
  - Working on next release. idr0093 fixed (issues with channel reading), confirmed by submitter.
  - Release as soon as ready. Also include a small dataset idr0106 (mouse whole lung light-sheet)
  - Seb: receiving feedback from external entities about IDR. Very useful to priotize next bodies of work.

- NGFF
  - Paper and benchmark are going well. +1TB 3D data needs processing.
    - Trying to consolidate a first version of the paper in the upcoming week
  - Several spec issues are being commented on. Hopefully first PRs will start appearing soon.
  - New freelancer coming ramping up on Zarr to implement a test suite.
  - Nothing in particular planned for tomorrow's regular Zarr call. 

- Releases
  - Security release next week
  - Website update to remove the shares feature
  - Looking at apps next likely e.g. iviewer with ROI improvemtns

- Glencoe
  - Business as usual. Upcoming Bio-Formats work to be ported to the open source

- Community
  - Sanger WebAtlas Project
     - Moving to a second interview with one developer
     - Call Mar. 16 @ 15 UK to meet Newcastle developers. Ola & Tong from Sanger will be joining as well.
  - Possible workshops for community meeting [prososal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GTQJf1llMbTvZOZ7M9N9w9q4dqzWwDBxu0a-B6LnrnA/edit)
    - Petr: decide on 1- proposed workshops and 2- timeslots. Probably 4-5 workshops. 
    - Frances: no talks? Also talks and potential topics
    - J-M: Not considering Bio-Formats open table to avoid miscommunication. Emphasis on IDR as public resource
    - Jason: no more than 1 workshop at any time. Reducing the number of workshops. Maybe combine 3/4?
    - J-m: Also use videos to point people at knowledge base. Page of advice for people wanting to get their own workshops/questions. Some form of FAQ
    - Seb: Submissions workshop is the one with less existing material
      - J-M: aksi defined in the context of the upcoming July training. Would act as a rehearsal
      - Seb: might need to scope and draw a first outline for the content of such a workshop.
      - Action: organize a call in the upcoming days (Thu)
    - Splitting across timezones? Worth it but be mindful of our own time.
    - Not having talks AND workshops on the same days. Possibly have one week of talks and one week of workshops 
    - Feedback welcome on the g.doc

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
