---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2021-01-26

Attending: Will, Petr, Frances, Wilma, Dom, Josh, Jason, June, Simon, Kevin, Jean-Marie, Erin, Chris, Melissa, Emil, David

Start: 2:30 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
  - Release today or tomorrow morning.
  - JRS: with idr0071? Yes. Final checks.

- NGFF
  - Josh: Several ongoing threads (Polygons, Collections) on image.sc
    - Start working/thinking on these
    - Upcoming call? - none since Nov
    - Ask community to start drafting spec?
    - EMBL might be working on collections
    - Anyone working on Polygons? Glencoe?
  - 3D/Lightsheet (Will)
    - Kicked off export of idr0044
    - Didn't get very far. May need to use existing data and downsample it.
  - Benchmarking (David)
  - jzarr and S3    
https://github.com/bcdev/jzarr/discussions/15
     - Chris - opened a couple of PRs (merged)
  - Jason: good to get an update on benchmarking
    - Josh: created some test data 60 GB
    - Lots of parameters to adjust
    - https://github.com/ome/ngff-latency-benchmark/pull/3
    - Discuss at 2pm tomorrow?

- Releases
  - Preparing insight release mainly mde fixes
  - Also coming: web, figure

- SA
  - Simon: Seb's been looking at GPFS nodes.
  - Ansible migration to 2.8 (J-m: will need to double check some repositories)

- Glencoe
  - Updating bioformats2raw layout for 0.3.0
  - Testing jzarr and updating microservices (incl. on AWS)

- Community
    - GBI this week (ends 1:30 UK each day)
      - JRS: not EOSC branded.
    - National DigPath call Thurs. morning.
    - J-m to mention Fraunhofer/COVID data
    - J-m: should start organizing scripts, notebooks under "ome" umbrella

## AOB
- Update on Hiring

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
